This is the only deadlift tutorial that
you'll ever need. Going to start with
two of our favorite deadlift patterns.
One to shift the heaviest load and the
other to build the most muscle. Shifting
the heaviest load is a conventional
deadlift. It does build muscle, but a
lot of that times our goal is to build
specific muscle and a conventional
deadlift isn't very specific. We're
using so much of our body to shift the
heaviest weights possible. Whereas, if
your goal is to build specific muscles,
most people will use a deadlift to build
glutes and hamstrings. And if that's the
case, the best variation is a Romanian
deadlift. And I'm going to show you the
difference between the two right now.
Now, before we start with the deadlift
tutorial, I'm going to show you our
essential pieces of equipment, starting
with the footwear. And that is no
footwear at all. The reason why I prefer
no footwear is two reasons. One is
because the thicker the sole, the more
you need to travel for your deadlifts,
and that just makes the movement more
difficult unnecessarily. Number two,
shoes like this has extra spongy soles,
which the analogy that I use is like
standing on a bed mattress when you're
trying to lift a heavy weight. It's not
very stable. So, the smaller the sole,
the stler the surface. The next piece of
equipment that I like is a covering for
the shins. So, that's either long socks,
a knee sleeve, or we have these special
shin protectors, which allows you to do
a lot of great things with the deadlift.
Number one is using our strong lats
which increases the rigidity of our
torso. Our lats attach at the front of
the humorris or the front of this upper
armbbone and come underneath and attach
to the top of the pelvis. So they cover
the longest distance of our spine of all
of our core muscles. So whenever we're
loading our spine, we want to have our
lats on. And to do this, we need to be
pulling the bar into our body from start
to finish. And if you do that without
the shin pads, you're probably going to
bleed on my barbells, which I don't
want. Or it's going to bruise your
shins, which you don't want. So, the
shin pads are going to allow you to use
your lats, and it's going to allow you
to keep that bar as close to your center
of mass as possible, allowing you to
shift the heaviest weights possible. The
conventional deadlift is my favorite
exercise to teach someone how to bend.
So, although I'm going to show you the
Romanian deadlift, that's actually a
little bit harder in my opinion. Now
let's have a look at the stance in a
deadlift. And this is going to be
different from lifter to lifter. One
thing that we need to factor in when we
think about the stance is the position
of our arms. That's going to be the most
efficient. The most efficient is where
our arms are straight down. If you go
any wider than straight down, you need
to travel further and further. So we
need to have our arms straight down, but
our hips need to fall on the inside of
that and the hips take priority. Now the
reason I'm talking about this is because
everybody's different. Now, if you have
a look at my proportions next to
Denny's, they're slightly different.
I've got more masculine proportions,
which is slightly broader shoulders
relative to the hip width. So, it's very
easy for me to have my arms straight
down and for my hips to fall on the
inside of that. However, Dy has very
feminine proportions. So, her shoulders
are a little bit narrower
proportionately to her hips, which are a
little bit wider. So therefore, when she
reaches straight down, her arms need to
fall on the outside of her legs, giving
her hips room to move, which means her
arms aren't going to be straight down,
but they're as close to that as
possible, which is fine. I like to walk
up to the bar in your comfortable
stance, which is roughly hip width.
Have a look at the shins. They're about
an inch away from the barbell, but the
main part that we're looking at is the
barbell is in line with the center of
her base of support, or in other words,
her midfoot. So, what happens now is
when she bends over to grab that
barbell, she's going to squat into
position and her shins are going to
gently move forward and very, very
gently touch that barbell. We don't want
to push that barbell forward. From here,
she wants to reach her arms downwards
and pull the bar into her body. Sitting
into position, her lats are on. So
pulling the bar into her body or
thinking about pulling her armpits
towards the pelvis is the best cue to
contract your lats. Reaching the crown
of her head to the ceiling will lengthen
her spine and help take the slack out of
the bar. Taking a big breath to brace
and thinking about pushing the world
away. Locking the knees out, pushing the
hips through in that order. The knees
lock out before the hips push through.
Now that we factored in her stance and
her grip width, the next thing I want
you to think about with the arms is
reaching down. One common problem that
people make is trying to pick it up with
their arms. We don't want to do that. We
want to act like the arm is just a piece
of rope that attaches the shoulder to
that barbell. And what we want to do is
reach down and back. Doing this movement
is going to do two things. It's going to
make our arms as long as possible.
And the next thing it does is it's going
to protect our biceps from tearing when
you get strong enough for that to
happen. One of the most common things
that we see with bicep tears is people
gripping as hard as possible and bending
their elbows using the biceps to do
that. The hips and back are a lot
stronger than the biceps. So the weakest
link in that chain is the biceps and
that is how biceps tear. So, if you want
your biceps to not tear, reach down and
relax that elbow joint. Now, I'm going
to show you some of my favorite cues to
put her upper body in the perfect
position for the deadlift. And that is
when she bends down into position, she's
going to think about reaching down as
far as possible, grabbing that barbell,
she pulls back into her body, and then
with her head, she reaches the crown of
the head to the ceiling.
Doing these three cues is my favorite
way to help take the slack out of the
bar. Let's have a look at that in real
time. Reaching down to grab the bar.
Pulling the bar into her body. Sitting
into position. Head to ceiling. Big
breath to brace. Pushing the world away.
Sits into position. Pulls the bar into
the body. Elbows nice and relaxed. And
arms nice and long.
We all love a deadlift. And the
objective of the deadlift most times is
to lift as heavy as weight as possible
as well as to teach someone the bend
pattern. Both of these things are very
important.
However, we can't really pinpoint
exactly which muscles we're using. I'm
trying to get her to use her whole body
to shift the heaviest load possible,
which means it's probably not the
greatest choice of exercise if you are a
bodybuilder or if you just want to
specifically build glutes, hamstrings,
or any specific muscle. That's where the
Romanian deadlift comes in handy. Now,
let's have a look at the Romanian
deadlift. Then he starts the Romanian
deadlift the exact same way as a
conventional deadlift. Same stance, same
setup, sitting into position,
bending the knees like a conventional
deadlift, but now the Romanian deadlift
starts at the top. Initiates the
movement by looking down, hinging at the
hips, minimizing the knee bend,
maximizing the stretch that she feels on
the hamstring. So, we're using less
quadriceps and more of those muscles of
the posterior chain. When we don't bend
the knees as much, this allows a greater
emphasis on the posterior chain muscles,
which is the hamstrings, the glutes, and
the erectus spina muscles. This is why
the Romanian deadlift is a better choice
for developing hamstrings and glutes
than the conventional deadlift. The next
biggest difference between the two
exercises is the Romanian deadlift
places more focus on the down portion of
the lift. When we started with the
conventional, we picked it up and we
didn't really place any emphasis on the
down phase, but now we do. So, the first
rep of a Romanian deadlift, we like to
start from the ground and I pick it up
with the same technique as a
conventional deadlift. Grabbing the bar,
sitting into position, pushing the world
away. Now, this is where the Romanian
deadlift starts. Which one is better or
worse? In my opinion, they both
complement each other so much. And you
can and should use both of these
exercise variations at different stages
of your training journey. Do you perform
deadlift on leg day or on back day? What
are you trying to achieve? You trying to
shift the heaviest weights possible? I
would say do it on deadlift day. But if
your goal is to train a specific group
of muscles, you need to figure out what
exercise is going to target that
muscles. Now, people think of deadlifts,
they think of glutes and hamstrings.
Well, conventional deadlift isn't great
at doing that, but a Romanian deadlift
is. If you found this advice useful and
if you want to keep getting stronger and
keep looking better, click subscribe for